Add a guide of plugging in CA cert to istiod and update CA documents (#6644)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/plugin-ca-cert/index.md

---

> title: Configuring CA Certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Plugging in existing CA Certificates
```

Reviewer: "Configuring" is very unclear. It could mean "configuring a self-signed cert" which is definitely not what you trying to say.

Author: Done.

> description: Shows how operators can configure Istio's CA with an existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Shows how system administrators can configure Istio's CA with an existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.
```

Author: Done.

weight: 80
keywords: [security,certificates]
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/security/plugin-ca-cert/
---

> This task shows how operators can configure the Istio certificate authority with an existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This task shows how administrators can configure the Istio certificate authority with an existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.
```

Reviewer: "Operator" could mean something different in Istio. Better to replace them with "administrator".

Author: Done.

By default, Istio's CA generates a self-signed root certificate and key, and uses them to sign the workload certificates.

> Istio's CA can also sign workload certificates using an operator-specified certificate and key, and with an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio's CA can also sign workload certificates using an administrator-specified certificate and key, and with an
```

Author: Done.

> operator-specified root certificate. This task demonstrates how to plug such certificates and key into Istio's CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
administrator-specified root certificate. This task demonstrates how to plug such certificates and key into Istio's CA.
```

Author: Done.

> ## Plugging in an existing certificate and key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Plugging in existing certificates and key
```

Author: Done.

    $ istioctl manifest apply --set profile=demo --set values.global.mtls.enabled=true
    {{< /text >}}

## Verifying the certificates

In this section, we verify that workload certificates are signed by the certificates that we plugged into the CA.
This requires you have `openssl` installed on your machine.

1. Deploy the `httpbin` and `sleep` sample services.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create ns foo
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml) -n foo
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml) -n foo
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Retrieve the certificate chain of `httpbin`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec $(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name}) -c istio-proxy -n foo -- openssl s_client -showcerts -connect httpbin.foo:8000 > httpbin-proxy-cert.txt
    {{< /text >}}

    Open `httpbin-proxy-cert.txt`, which was created with the above command, and save the three certificates in it
    to `proxy-cert-0.pem`, `proxy-cert-1.pem`, and `proxy-cert-2.pem`, respectively.
    A certificate starts with `-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----` and ends with `-----END CERTIFICATE-----`.

> 1.  Verify the root certificate is the same as the one specified by operator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Verify the root certificate is the same as the one specified by the administrator:
```

Author: Done.

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ openssl x509 -in @samples/certs/root-cert.pem@ -text -noout > /tmp/root-cert.crt.txt

Reviewer: What is "@" for?

Author: It will create a URL link to https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/release-1.5/samples/certs/root-cert.pem.

Reviewer: I see. Thanks.

    $ openssl x509 -in ./proxy-cert-2.pem -text -noout > /tmp/pod-root-cert.crt.txt
    $ diff /tmp/root-cert.crt.txt /tmp/pod-root-cert.crt.txt
    {{< /text >}}

    Expect the output to be empty.

> 1.  Verify the CA certificate is the same as the one specified by operator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Verify the CA certificate is the same as the one specified by the administrator:
```

Author: Done.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ openssl x509 -in @samples/certs/ca-cert.pem@ -text -noout > /tmp/ca-cert.crt.txt
    $ openssl x509 -in ./proxy-cert-1.pem -text -noout > /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.crt.txt
    $ diff /tmp/ca-cert.crt.txt /tmp/pod-cert-chain-ca.crt.txt
    {{< /text >}}

    Expect the output to be empty.

1.  Verify the certificate chain from the root certificate to the workload certificate:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ head -n 21 ./proxy-cert-0.pem > /tmp/pod-cert-chain-workload.pem

Reviewer: Don't need `head` here. proxy-cert-0.pem has a single cert already.

Author: Done.

>     $ openssl verify -CAfile <(cat @samples/certs/ca-cert.pem@ @samples/certs/root-cert.pem@) /tmp/pod-cert-chain-workload.pem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ openssl verify -CAfile <(cat @samples/certs/ca-cert.pem@ @samples/certs/root-cert.pem@) ./proxy-cert-0.pem
```

Author: Done.

---

> title: Plugging in External CA Key and Certificate

Reviewer 2: Configuring CA Certificates

Author: Done.

> description: Shows how operators can configure Istio's CA with existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Shows how operators can configure Istio's CA with an existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.
```

Author: Done.

> weight: 10

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
weight: 80
```

Author: Done.

keywords: [security,certificates]
aliases:
    - /docs/tasks/security/plugin-ca-cert/
---

This task shows how operators can configure the Istio certificate authority with an existing root certificate, signing certificate and key.

> By default, Istio's CA generates self-signed root certificate and key, and uses them to sign the workload certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Istio's CA generates a self-signed root certificate and key, and uses them to sign the workload certificates.
```

Author: Done.

> Istio's CA can also use the operator-specified certificate and key to sign workload certificates, with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Istio's CA can also sign workload certificates using an operator-specified certificate and key, and with an
```

Author: Done.

> operator-specified root certificate. This task demonstrates an example to plug certificates and key into Istio's CA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
operator-specified root certificate. This task demonstrates how to plug such certificates and key into Istio's CA.
```

Author: Done.

## Plugging in an existing certificate and key

Suppose we want to have Istio's CA use an existing signing (CA) certificate `ca-cert.pem` and key `ca-key.pem`.
Furthermore, the certificate `ca-cert.pem` is signed by the root certificate `root-cert.pem`.
We would like to use `root-cert.pem` as the root certificate for Istio workloads.

In the following example,

> Istio CA's signing (CA) certificate (`ca-cert.pem`) is different from root certificate (`root-cert.pem`),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Istio CA's signing (CA) certificate (`ca-cert.pem`) is different from the root certificate (`root-cert.pem`),
```

Author: Done.
